
 Prev
 
Next 
Samantha Reeve
Samantha Reeve
ESL South East Asia Segment Manager

この著者の作品をもっと見る

24 Fun Vocabulary Games for ESL Students
 8 min

2022年3月17日

Vocabulary is like the raw building blocks of language and learning new vocabulary supports all four of the language skills (reading, writing, listening and speaking.) ESL students who are only just beginning their English language journey will have to spend a lot of time learning and reviewing new vocabulary words. Any new topic you introduce in the classroom, will inevitably bring a new set of words that your students will need to master.

Here are 24 of the best vocabulary games and activities to make sure your ESL students have fun memorising new words.


Flashcard Games
Jump & Shout
Lay out flashcards in a line along the floor with some space between each card.  Students jump and say the flashcard they land next to, jumping their way down the line of cards. You can make this competitive by dividing the class into two teams to race along two lines, or timing students to see who can get to the end of the line fastest. 

Reveal the picture
Use a blank or piece of coloured paper to cover pictures of the target words. Slowly slide the cover paper to reveal only a small part of the image at a time. Students can shout out and guess what the word is.

Word Fishing 
Before this game you need to have the students in pairs draw and cut out a picture of a fish for each pair.  While they are doing that, put 2 parallel lines of tape on the floor a few metres apart.  Have students play in twos - each student behind a different line.

Download Arrow
今すぐ無料会員登録
今すぐダウンロード Chevron Right
Ask each student what the flashcard word is and if they answer correctly they can blow once to propel the fish forward. The student who blows the fish over the tapped line is the winner. 

Dice Roll
This game requires a dice, even better if it’s giant dice! Write the number 1-6 on the board and a different flashcard or the vocab word next to each number. Each student gets a chance to toss the die and say out loud the word that corresponds to that flashcard.

Word Duel 
Ask two students to stand back to back. Give them each a different flashcard to hold facing out and away from them. When you say go, they walk three steps, turn to face each other and say what the other student is holding.

Shopping
This game can be played with any flashcards, but naturally works best with vocabulary related to shopping, such as food or clothes.

Present the flashcards to your students and ask them  "What do you want?" and students should reply (e.g. "a hamburger, please"). The teacher then hands over the card and says "Here you are" and the student responds with “Thank you". 

Letter Soup
Place plastic letters or letter flashcards in a bowl. Each student draws a letter from the bowl and then finds the flash cards beginning with that letter.

True or False
Hold up a flashcard to your students and either say the word for that card or say an incorrect word. Students have to guess if it’s the correct word and shout out “true” if they think it’s correct, or “false” if it’s incorrect. 

Four Corners
Stick up a flashcard in each corner of your classroom. One student stands in the middle with their eyes closed and counts to ten while the other students scramble to one of the four corners. When they reach the number ten, the student in the middle shouts "stop" and picks one corner by naming its corresponding flashcard word.

The students in that corner are out of the game. The game continues until only one student remains and they take the place of the student in the middle.

Missing Words
Lay out flashcards on the floor, or stick them up on the wall or board. Review them with the class and then ask students to close their eyes. Take away one card before students open their eyes and guess which card is missing.

Give Me A…
Place all the flashcards you want to use around the classroom.  Students walk around the room finding and collecting the flashcards. The teacher then calls out "Give me a…. car" and the student with that card hands it to the teacher.

Spin the Bottle
Sit students in a circle and choose a student by spinning a bottle in the middle. Showed the student a flashcard and asked them what the word is. If they guess correctly, they can spin the bottle and choose the next player.

If you need flashcards, check out our collection of vocabulary flashcards. 

Active Games
Do you like..?
This game uses the sentence ‘do you like?’ so it works best with words that make sense with this sentence pattern, ie. foods, animals, colours, hobbies. Split your class into two teams. Three students from each group are nominated to be the designated runners and stand at the back of the classroom. Walk around the classroom and choose a random student. The student asks you "Do you like...?" plus one of the flashcard words at the front. You answer "No, I don't" and continue to walk around the room and choose more students. Eventually you can answer "Yes, I do!" The front runner from each group has to rush forward and pick up the matching card. 

Leapfrog
Stick at least 8 flashcards up on the wall or board in a line. Split the class into two teams. One team lines up on the left side of the room, and the other team is on the right side of the room. The first student from each team comes to the board, one at the left side and one at the right.

They read the words out loud, one at a time, "leaping" along to their opponent's side of the board. When the students meet they play roce, paper, scissors and the losing student sits down and is replaced by another student from their team, while the winner continues down the one. The winner is whichever team reaches the other side of the board first.

Word Sumo
Students sit in a circle with two students standing in the middle. Stick or pin a vocabulary picture on the two student’s backs. They face each other in the middle of the circle and everyone shouts “ready, steady, go!”. They then move around the circle and try to see the word in their opponent's back. Once they’ve seen the picture they put their hand in the air and give their answer.

Whiteboard Games
Pictionary
Choose a student and show them a flashcard or let them pick a word from a hat. The student draws the picture on the board and the first student to guess the picture gets to draw the next picture. You can also make it more competitive with teams, points or timers. 

Flyswatter
Stick some flashcards or write some vocabulary words on the board and split your class into two teams. One student from each team comes to the board and the teacher gives some hints or clues about the word. The first one to hit the correct word with their flyswatter is the winner.

Password
One student must sit in front of the class facing away from the whiteboard. Next, write a word on the whiteboard. The other students must then describe the word on the whiteboard without saying the actual word. For example, if the word was apple, students might say ‘It’s a fruit’ or ‘It’s usually red or green’, etc. You can make this competitive by seeing how many words each student can guess in 1 minute. 

Interactive Games
Tic Tac Toe
This tic tac toe game is editable, so you can add whichever words or picture you like into each box. Divide your class into two teams; ‘x’ team and ‘o’ team. Ask them each to choose a square and tell you the correct word, alternating between each team. The aim of the game is for a team to get three correct words in a row. 

Four in a Row
Another editable interactive game, in which you can add whatever vocabulary you want. You could split your class into two teams and then ask them questions and whoever answers correctly gets to touch the grid until their coloured counter appears.

Reveal the Picture
These are digital versions of the picture game we mentioned earlier. Try using the verb, food or dinosaur versions.

ESL What Are They Doing? Reveal the Picture PowerPoint [Kids, A1]
ESL What Are They Doing? Reveal the Picture PowerPoint [Kids, A1]

Reveal the Picture: What's That Food?
Reveal the Picture: What's That Food?

Bingo
This game is perfect if you are teaching or tutoring one or one and need a digital vocabulary activity. Try this clothes version or one with classroom objects. 

Matching
Another great game for one on one online classes. Try this interactive version of a classic picture-matching game.

Compound Words Interactive Matching Activity
Compound Words Interactive Matching Activity

Board games
Check out some of our editable board games that can be adapted with any target vocabularly. 

Design Your Own Bingo Spinner Board Game
Design Your Own Bingo Spinner Board Game

Design Your Own Blank Board Game
Design Your Own Blank Board Game

Design Your Own Clued-In Board Game
Design Your Own Clued-In Board Game

Design Your Own Matching Dominoes Game for EYFS
Design Your Own Matching Dominoes Game for EYFS

Blank Board Game Template
Blank Board Game Template

Articles that You Might Like
Teaching English - Vocabulary for your Toolbox

What is A Word Web?
 

Get teaching ideas and inspiration - all in one weekly newsletter!
登録する×
このライターのブログをもっと見る
最新の投稿
headway 5qgiuubxkwm unsplash 2
17 ESL Resources Now Available as Google Slides
pexels karolina grabowska
New ESL Resources for this week 28 August 2023
pexels yan krukau
8 Tips for Getting Your ESL Students Speaking

Level Tests and Levelling Activities for ESL students